Creating a Marble Madness clone 3D game.
In this section we'll cover creating a complete 3D game from scratch.
We'll use physics forces to move our character.
We'll add rigid body obstacles, win loss conditions and extra Polish 3D project setup.
In this video, we'll cover taking the inspiration for a new game project and translating that into
key concepts.
Planning a 3D Game.
The inspiration for our new game is the 1980s classic Marble Madness.
We'll call our game Crazy Ball.
And here's a simple mockup graphics of the major game elements.
Things will borrow from the original 3D physics motion with input, physics, collisions, time limit
and a minimalistic futuristic art style.
The rules of crazy ball will be like this.
Race to the finish within the time limit to win.
Collect coins for points.
Navigate through the level design with movable and immovable objects.
The physics breakdown is will be moving using rigid body add force.
We'll collect coins with on collision events and we'll get the event of when we reach the finish line.
Using on trigger.
The task breakdown will be three d project setup, creating the characters and input, creating the
obstacles, adding win loss conditions, and finally adding extra polish with sounds and animation.
Package installation building.
This type of game does not require any extra packages.
However, I've chosen to use a couple to help us if you want to follow along, These are necessary.
However, note that this is already done for you in our course demo project.
These instructions are only if you want to start a new project completely from scratch outside of our
work and get these same features.
First, we'll use Cinema Machine to track the camera following our ball.
Next, we'll use pro grids to help snap the objects as we're laying out and doing level design.
Three D project setup.
Here's the task breakdown for our first setup.
This is a screenshot which represents our final target.
We'll add the ground, we'll add the background, and we'll add the crazy ball prefab.
Then we'll set up the cinema machine camera to follow our crazy ball.
For the project, we'll open up section six, Video one and the scene Crazy Ball zero one.
We'll open up our crazy ball.
One scene we see we've got the crazy ball and some background elements and of course our cameras looking
at the crazy ball.
So if we look at the environment, we see a lot of similar things to our other scenes, including we've
got a floor here and then we have a copy of the floor, uses the background, just have something behind
it.
We zoom into the crazy ball, we see we've just got a textured ball.
Nothing too great there yet.
But something new is this virtual camera.
So let's learn how to set up a virtual camera using cinema machine.
So I'll delete the camera, the virtual camera and the crazy ball, and we'll create these from scratch.
Look.
So we'll create a new D object sphere for our ball.
We'll put it more or less in the center of the world.
Maybe a little bit off the ground.
Great.
Then we'll create a new Unity camera.
And then something new.
We're going to create a cinema machine, virtual camera.
Once we do that onto the camera, it's automatically added to cinema machine brain.
Now the unity camera will be driven by the cinema machine system instead.
And the beauty of that is that these cameras come with a lot of functionality.
We'll do some tweaking on this virtual camera.
We'll have it follow our sphere and we'll have it look at our sphere.
Then down here we can choose some options.
We'll have the body be offset using a transposon and we'll have the aim.
Follow by a composer.
Now, the offset, we just turn it a little bit up.
Maybe we want to back off a little bit or zoom in.
You can tweak that to the lawyer that you want.
Then down here in the composer, we can choose to track the object a little high or a little low or
just dead in the center.
And that's all that we have to do.
Now, when we play the scene, we can take that sphere manually and we can move it around and you can
see that the cinema machine follows it perfectly.
In the next video, we'll look at creating the player and input we'll cover taking keyboard input using
rigid body, add force for motion and using pro grids to position the walls.